h1. NXMLFormatter

h4. Beautify your XML easily. NXMLFormatter is an open-source XML Beautifier written with C#. The DLL is available as a portable class library.

h4. Usage

1. Add reference to NXMLFormatter.dll.

2. var formattedXML = NXMLFormatter.Formatter.Format(originalXML);

Project doesn't have any external references and it uses only the features provided by the .NET Framework.

h4. NuGet

NXMLFormatter is available through the NuGet with the package name NXMLFormatter. Type "install-package NXMLFormatter" to install it.

h4. Example

h5. Input

<pre><code>

&lt;catalog&gt;&lt;book id="bk101"&gt;&lt;author&gt;Gambardella, Matthew&lt;/author&gt;
&lt;title&gt;XML Developer's Guide&lt;/title&gt;
&lt;genre&gt;Computer&lt;/genre&gt;&lt;price&gt;44.95&lt;/price&gt;&lt;publish_date&gt;2000-10-01&lt;/publish_date&gt;&lt;description&gt;An in-depth look at creating applications with XML.&lt;/description&gt;
&lt;/book&gt;
&lt;book id="bk102"&gt;   &lt;author&gt;Ralls, Kim&lt;/author&gt;   &lt;title&gt;Midnight Rain&lt;/title&gt;
&lt;genre&gt;Fantasy&lt;/genre&gt;
&lt;price&gt;5.95&lt;/price&gt;
&lt;publish_date&gt;2000-12-16&lt;/publish_date&gt;
&lt;description&gt;A former architect battles corporate zombies, an evil sorceress, and her own childhood to become queen of the world.&lt;/description&gt;&lt;/book&gt;
&lt;book id="bk103"&gt;   &lt;author&gt;Corets, Eva&lt;/author&gt;   &lt;title&gt;Maeve Ascendant&lt;/title&gt;   &lt;genre&gt;Fantasy&lt;/genre&gt;
   &lt;price&gt;5.95&lt;/price&gt;   &lt;publish_date&gt;2000-11-17&lt;/publish_date&gt;
   &lt;description&gt;After the collapse of a nanotechnology society in England, the young survivors lay the 
   foundation for a new society.&lt;/description&gt;&lt;/book&gt;&lt;/catalog&gt;

</pre></code>

h5. Output

<pre><code>

&lt;catalog&gt;
  &lt;book
    id="bk101"&gt;
    &lt;author&gt;Gambardella, Matthew&lt;/author&gt;
    &lt;title&gt;XML Developer's Guide&lt;/title&gt;
    &lt;genre&gt;Computer&lt;/genre&gt;
    &lt;price&gt;44.95&lt;/price&gt;
    &lt;publish_date&gt;2000-10-01&lt;/publish_date&gt;
    &lt;description&gt;An in-depth look at creating applications with XML.&lt;/description&gt;
  &lt;/book&gt;
  &lt;book
    id="bk102"&gt;
    &lt;author&gt;Ralls, Kim&lt;/author&gt;
    &lt;title&gt;Midnight Rain&lt;/title&gt;
    &lt;genre&gt;Fantasy&lt;/genre&gt;
    &lt;price&gt;5.95&lt;/price&gt;
    &lt;publish_date&gt;2000-12-16&lt;/publish_date&gt;
    &lt;description&gt;A former architect battles corporate zombies, an evil sorceress, and her own childhood to become queen of the world.&lt;/description&gt;
  &lt;/book&gt;
  &lt;book
    id="bk103"&gt;
    &lt;author&gt;Corets, Eva&lt;/author&gt;
    &lt;title&gt;Maeve Ascendant&lt;/title&gt;
    &lt;genre&gt;Fantasy&lt;/genre&gt;
    &lt;price&gt;5.95&lt;/price&gt;
    &lt;publish_date&gt;2000-11-17&lt;/publish_date&gt;
    &lt;description&gt;After the collapse of a nanotechnology society in England, the young survivors lay the 
   foundation for a new society.&lt;/description&gt;
  &lt;/book&gt;
&lt;/catalog&gt;

</pre></code>

h4. Licenses

This software is distributed under the terms of the MIT License (see mit.txt).